I'm Wesley Morris and this is Cannonball
today. Lights, camera, acting, acting,
acting. Oops, I acted my way right into
that microphone.
It's the end of the year and if you're a
certain kind of critic, that means
you're summing up the whole thing with a
best of the year list. I love lists. I
love superlatives. And yet sometimes a
plain old best isn't quite cutting it.
For one thing, it's vague. Best actor.
Okay, talk to me about what best is
doing here. And so the New York Times
magazine has this annual tradition that
we call great performers, where every
year I watch as many people acting in
movies as my eyes can handle. Probably
it's even more than that. And I think
about what exactly is making the best
ones so great. What's the best way of
explaining what is going on with how
excellent this one performance is?
What's great about what I'm seeing? The
last time we did this, for instance, I
thought Margot Robbiey's performance in
Barbie wasn't best actress, per se. It
was best nervous breakdown. I'm not
pretty anymore. And the guy who played
Ken, Ryan Gosling, I didn't give him
best actor cuz, you know, somebody else
could do that. But best theft of a movie
is really what he did cuz he kind of
stole that thing.
>> And this year I'm going to give out a
handful of awards here on Cannonball for
our first ever Great Performers award
show. I even put on a tux.
And joining me to do that talking is
Sasha Weiss.
>> That's so fun. She's my editor here at
the Times and a critic herself. and
she's responsible for making my end of
this very elaborate project good. Today,
she's not only my guest, but she's also
going to be my co-host. So, buckle up,
people, for the first annual Great
Performers episode.
Sasha,
>> hi Wesley.
>> Welcome to Cannonball.
>> Thank you. Thrilled to be here. Okay, we
have a job to do today, but I feel like
the immediate question to ask you is
like, who are you wearing?
>> Oh,
Zero Maria Kjo
>> on sale.
>> Okay, but
>> a treasured a treasured dress.
>> Yeah, it's really great.
>> Thank you.
>> Who are you wearing?
>> Oh, see, cuz nobody ever asks the men
really. They've learned to do that as a
matter of like women being like, "Excuse
me, there is a man who is not naked
standing next to me. You need to ask him
some questions."
>> Well, you have real saratoral opinions.
>> I do, but I also This is This is an
Allen David custom thing that I had made
and I would call it my starter tux.
>> It is um It's actually too small for me
now. And you tied my tie.
>> I did. I have to say it was beautiful
having somebody tie your bow tie for
you. Anyway, the point is thank you
>> for doing great.
>> You're welcome.
>> Um, so Sasha, what are we doing?
>> What are we doing?
>> Why are we doing this? Why do we get
dressed up?
>> Well, I you know, Wesley, I think it's
interesting this kind of like attraction
you have to awards and a little bit of
resistance you have to awards to best
of, right? So tell me a little bit about
why you devised these special awards of
your own.
>> Uh cuz it made this more fun to do
honestly. Like I mean we should just say
like what this process is.
>> I mean you start watching movies in
January and you don't stop until
somebody
actually says you have to stop watching
movies and start typing. Um
>> and so how many movies was that? I mean,
this year I did not count, but it had to
it has to have been more than like a
hundred. Like certainly more than a
hundred. And even then, you know, I
still wound up not seeing I don't know
five or six things that I really wanted
to see.
>> Yeah. There's always this this longing
to see more. It's always it's always
hard to get you to stop and I always
sympathize with that because you want to
be a completist, which which you almost
always nearly are. But I'm curious, you
know, as you're especially when you're
on a spree and you're just absorbing so
much, what captures your eye and tells
you this is a great performance?
>> Mostly it it's surprise. It's surprise.
Even with a person who I've seen act a
zillion times, like what is going to
happen this time that's going to be
different or
unexpected in your performance? And
without you trying to do that sometimes
that that kind of attempt to
make a change in terms of how you
present yourself on camera that works
for me, but it's more when I did not see
what you're doing coming.
>> Have you seen all of the movies that
we're we're talking about here?
>> I've seen most of the movies that we're
talking about here. I watch them, you
know, kind of behind you, informed by
you, occasionally disagreeing with you.
>> Okay. Um, but fascinated by the way that
you that you slice these things. And
just a question I wanted to ask you or
or maybe like a rule that it's kind of
helpful to tell our viewers, our
listeners, is that you know these
categories that we devise that you
devise. We don't devise them, you devise
them. But they have to plausibly be
something that helps us think about
performance in general or that's at
least the instructions that we give.
>> That's the instruction that you give. I
think it's real, you know, in the sense
that there's something about like the
hyper specificity of this list, like the
the wonderful paradox of it, right, is
like the the closer in you get, the more
you're getting to something about some
of the essences of what performance is.
>> Yes. Now, it's funny because I I have
never talked to an actor about the way
we're doing this. I don't know how
actors feel about it. narrowing a
performance down to like an aspect of
what it is they did. But the way I try
to think about the assignment here is to
focus on the essence of what makes the
performance great, not to sort of block
out the rest of the performance, to
focus on this narrow aspect of it. I
feel like it's a kind of instruction
manual for how to watch a performance
because it gives you this very specific
blueprint. Or at least it does that for
me.
>> Yeah. Okay.
>> So, I think we should get into it.
>> All right. Fine.
>> These categories are so great. They're
so much fun. They're so perceptive.
>> So, let's let's let's uh talk about
them.
>> Okay.
>> Okay. I'm going to I'm going to tell the
people
>> the first category this year's I think
we should call it the Weskers.
>> No, we
>> I'm going to make that happen. I'm I'm
starting to make that happen. Best
performance in a helmet.
>> Oh, okay. Well, I already What should I
I mean, I already know who the winner
is. All right. Uh, best performance in a
helmet. It's Brad Pitt in F1 the movie.
>> So, tell us why did this performance
work for you so well and why is it the
best performance in a helmet?
Well, how many performances have I seen
people use helmets to give? Right. I was
just the first thing that came to mind
was Russell Crow and Gladiator. Like I
mean
>> just the the movies are littered with
people
>> in helmets
>> who've who've performed in helmets.
>> This one is the first time I have ever
thought about the acting one has to
consider doing while acting in a helmet.
And to be clear about like what is going
on with Brad Pitt's like carbon fiber
helmet in F1 the movie is that most of
the performance he's just doing a thing
that we all love Brad Pitt for right
shows up is effortlessly himself.
>> He's just emanating Brad Pitt.
>> Yeah. I mean, the character is basically
a fourhire driver who winds up being
recruited to drive on this one fancy
team that Javier Bardm is is is
operating. But that, you know, Brad Pitt
is too interesting to be to to for that
performance writ large to be worth
considering here because he's now at a
point in his career where
so much about him is interesting and
he's bringing so much of himself to bear
in these performances like just like his
history as a person who's acted. But the
helmet is bringing out some new
fun for him. Like I don't know if it was
hard for him to give the helmet part of
the performance, but I will say that the
range of expression that comes through
in this thing on his head where you
can't even see his mouth and his cheeks
are kind of pushed in.
>> Um,
>> so it's all in the twinkle of the eye.
just all in this area right here.
>> And he is he
>> so it's a kind of virtuosity.
>> I think it's movie star virtuosity,
right? It is like a he can make it mean
something when you can only see 35% of
it.
>> We'll be able to hold him off, guys. I
got no grip.
There's something about having this
thing on his head where like there are
these it's just squeezing these emotions
out of him
>> and it's just such a pleasure to know
what he's feeling at every point. His
eyes are doing new work here. The crease
between his eyes like in his forehead
are are expressing something.
>> It's just like I I don't I'll probably
go back to thinking to not thinking
about actors and helmets after this too,
right? So, a kind of peak has been
reached until, you know, the next time
somebody comes along and they're like, I
know what to do in this thing. But this
is just really good helmet acting.
>> Kind of hot
>> self entertainment. Yeah. I mean, if
you're if you're into bondage, Brad Pitt
face bondage, F1, the movie is for you,
Sasha. You better get yourself to Apple
Plus right now.
>> I'm interested in this movie. Thank you.
Thank you very much.
>> Not that it needed another ticket to get
sold, but like he is it is worth
watching and he is very good at it.
>> All right, let's go to the next
category. I'm very excited about this
one, okay?
>> Cuz I love this movie
>> and I related to it.
>> Best friends.
>> Listen, Best Friends, uh Kiki Palmer and
Siza in the film One of Them Days, I got
so much joy. There's a kind of
>> wait wait wait let me let me let's set
it up. What are these two actors doing
in this movie?
>> These are two roommates who who have one
day to find the money to pay their rent
in Los Angeles. That's it. It's a
classic opposites opposites friends
situation where the responsible you know
dependable one is Kiki Palmer's
character. She works at a fast food
place. She pulled an allnighter
>> and and it's meta because Kiki Palmer is
such a freaking pro. She is polished.
She is, you know, all
>> corners the hospital corners as a
performer.
>> Yes. But also has a capacity for fun and
whimsy,
>> right? And the whimsy here is completely
embodied by Siza,
>> who is a person I did not even know
could act and definitely not be funny in
the way that she's funny here. Um, this
is sort of your She's in like um Lisa
Kudro territory is how I would think
about it.
>> Um,
>> dreamy,
>> a little bit of a dingbat, but also kind
of um like grounded in some other way
that really matters to to a character
and a person.
>> She can't be written off as being only
flighty. Anyway, she is not with it
enough to let her boyfriend run off with
the rent money. So, they are spending a
day in Los Angeles trying to find a way
to get this money back somehow. Not from
him, but some other way.
>> Can we watch a little bit of this?
>> Yes. Um, we're going to need headphones,
which I have.
>> I'll grab some.
>> I love this movie. I watched it last
night at 1:00 a.m. It was the funnest
two hours I've had.
>> I watched this both in a movie theater
and at home. And we'll just watch the
scene. This is Kiki Palmer outside the
restaurant.
>> Don't be like that. I'm sorry. I'm
sorry.
>> I had to get a jump from Shemica. Then
they put a road block up on LA. I had to
go all the way around. I'm sorry. I'm
sorry. I'm sorry.
>> She's worked overnight. She pulled a
double and she's tired. Kiki Palmer just
wants to go to sleep.
>> And she's pissed because
>> I am sorry.
>> This is late.
>> I wasn't trying to be
>> because actually you're on time. I got
off at 7.
>> This is the kind of thing that friends
do.
>> And I still got you this
girl.
>> Yes. And I really should have done
>> brought her some breakfast from work.
>> Don't worry about me. I'm'll be fine.
Two kisses up to God and I'll be
straight.
>> Two kisses up to God.
>> You think she's improvising her lines? I
think that there is some level of improv
here. I feel like
I think that these are kind of the
hardest. I think that in some ways we're
going to talk about some very difficult
performances to give, but I think
performances where the entire project is
riding on your salespersonship of a
relationship with another person is so
hard to do. And the thing that is so
pleasurable about watching them is I
don't know if these people knew each
other before this movie started, but you
believe that they have been in each
other's lives for decades.
>> So that livedin friendship,
>> it's like it they've been they're really
good at that.
>> Also weirdly moving. I mean, not to to
bring the light%,
>> but down to kind of something, you know,
emotional, but there's something to me
>> so emotionally true about the little orb
they create because they're they're kind
of going through LA, you know, having
these misadventures and and all this
[__] is happening to them. They get
electrocuted. They get chased by a
gangster. They get, you know, there
there's a fire. There's literally a
fire. And there's something so kind of
serenely complete about the orb of their
attention toward each other and like the
world can be crumbling around them. But
this is a love story. And this is also
what it's like to be friends when you're
in your 20s and trying to figure out
yourselves and the world. Like
>> they know the stakes, but they kind of
just like,
>> you know,
>> cuz they have each other.
>> Because they have each other. They
trapees through the world unbothered
because they have each other. And it's
it's it's touching. It's touching. It
does not work if you do not believe the
two people playing the parts and you It
doesn't work if you don't believe that
they love each other. And I I think
these people are living together right
now.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. This next one I find very exciting
because well, we're both excited about
the person who is going to win it.
>> Oh, I'm not even going to look. The 2025
Great Performers Award for least [__]
given goes to
>> it's Emma Stone and Jesse Flemens in
Beonia.
>> You know what are they doing in this
movie? Tell us. This is a this is a
crazy Yorgos Lanthamos movie about two
guys who decide that this woman who runs
>> pharmaceutical company
>> some some pharmaceutical company is
definitely from outer space. And so in
order to stop her from destroying
humanity, they kidnap her in order for
them for her to tell them all her
secrets, all the business.
>> No, but that's not why. Fact check.
>> What? They kidnap her so that she can
talk to her alien overlord to convince
them to leave Earth and stop destroying
Earth.
>> Yes. Okay.
>> I mean, I think to be to be absolutely
crystal clear about what's happening in
the movie, he has kidnapped this very
famous executive.
>> Yes. and she's in his basement and he is
persuaded that she's an alien and he's
and he's torturing her and she's trying
to figure out how much of his reality to
match and where playing along with his
deranged fiction might be to her
advantage and where confronting reality
with him might be to her advantage. And
she tries different tacks throughout the
movie producing different kinds of rage,
woundedness,
assurance, you know, shortity,
certainty. Um,
>> yes.
>> I feel like we should watch a little bit
of this.
>> All right, fine. Oh, I'm going to put my
headphones on cuz I need to hear the
great Emma Stone.
>> Here's what's going to happen.
>> I love her voice.
>> The voice is really part of it, too.
It there's so much richness to it. But
the following is my best guess of how
the next 48 hours are likely to
transpire.
>> She also has girl boss voice in this
movie, too.
>> It's low. It's it's it's been grally,
but she's really leaning into the lower
register.
>> The police and soon thereafter, the FBI
will begin a statewide manhunt using all
of the methods at their disposal and the
combined resources of neighboring
jurisdictions. My company is a key job
creator and economic engine of the
region. I am crucial
I mean, she's got powder powder on her
face. I thought this was Tilda Swinton.
>> When I looked at the posters for a long
time,
>> there's an otherworldly flirting with
hideousness.
>> And I don't think that the shaving of
the head is an accident here too, right?
because it brings her into alignment
with a whole universe of bald woman in
the movies and they're all in outer
space,
>> you know, like
it really knows what it's doing from the
standpoint of iconography,
>> which is all leading quite inevitably to
your imprisonment
and very likely worse. Meanwhile,
>> if I can be frank,
>> that I can assure you that there is no
possible scenario where you benefit from
this incident unless you cooperate with
me right now and negotiate a deal that's
fair and advantageous to us both. Emma
Stone is here to like win everything at
this.
Part of it is the character, but part of
it is her saying, you know what, I'm
willing to do anything this part
requires. I mean, she's like one of our
great actors. Just I don't know why it
doesn't like just say it.
>> Okay.
Wow.
>> That was really good.
>> I agree, Jesse Cleven. I agree.
>> My pulse was racing right now. Um,
[__]
>> Yeah. I mean, so what I love about him
in that moment too is that's the
performance in a nutshell. Like a person
>> who
it's hard to play an idiot
is more than that, right?
>> Where the actor
respects the character no matter what
the character is being asked to do. He
is physically outmatched. He is
psychologically outmatched. He is
emotionally illquipped to deal with what
it means to to be upstaged at every
possible turn of this performance. But
he does not lose the sort of truth and
the spine of what it is this guy has to
do, which is to keep believing anyway,
right? He wants to believe in something
>> and
he wants to be manipulated.
I don't know how you act wanting to be
manipulated,
>> but like letting the most the bravest
actor on earth manipulate you. I mean,
bravest actor on earth right now, I
would say, at the movies.
>> Um,
>> is really somethingrivilege
special to watch, right? And letting her
take him as far as as he can go cuz he's
never Jesse Clemens is one of these
actors who
>> has been in so many movies in smaller
parts, and this is the first time he's
been responsible for helping drive the
car, so to speak.
>> I don't know. I I really like them
together and she really does bring out
something new in him.
>> The crazy thing about Emma Stone is that
she is I think still under 40.
>> What else is she going to do? She may be
present in your awards every single year
for the rest of time.
>> I don't mind. Listen, the truth the
truth has to be told. I'm not going to
That's the other thing.
>> But speaking of truth, Speaking of
truth,
>> I'm not afraid to say the truth.
>> Let's go. Let's go to this next
category. You ready? I am.
>> We've been talking about stardom,
established stardom, evolving stardom,
>> vast careers that are getting vaster.
Now, we're going to talk about a new
kind of star, the person who is the
recipient of this award for craziest
charm.
>> I mean, craziest charm, ASAP Rocky in If
I Had Legs, I'd kick you and uh highest
to lowest. Tell us about ASAP Rocky in
both roles, which are pretty different.
>> They're very different. In highest to
low, he plays a kidnapper who's trying
to shake Denzel Washington down for a
lot of money. And in If I Had Legs That
Kick You, he's the guy who works at the
motel where Roseburn is like, "Hold up."
It's her movie, but he is
he is just such a like balm for the eyes
and all of the unpleasant stuff that we
have to watch this woman do. And this is
just one of those parts where both these
movies, they rely on the charisma of the
person playing the roles. And
>> and would you say that not all famous
actors have charisma?
>> Sure. like no lots of people don't have
charisma and I don't know why we are
being asked to pay to watch them. Um,
ASAP Rocky is somebody conversely who I
I wonder if we'll get more chances to
pay to watch him act,
>> please.
>> Because what we're talking about here,
this is like these two performances to
me
>> are where Brad Pitt started out.
>> You know, this is Brad Pitt and Thelma
and Louise.
>> The guy who shows up and you know,
you're watching,
>> but he doesn't even get to have any sex
or take his shirt off and still
>> he's doesn't even need it. I mean, he's
got the teeth. He's got the best teeth
in the business. Those teeth are a are
are a shirtless man.
>> Like he doesn't need to take off a
single scrap of clothes.
>> As long as he can smile, we're good.
>> Let's Let's watch ASAP. Rocky,
>> you don't have to tell me twice.
>> This is uh I'm assuming highest to
lowest.
>> I'm a chance giver.
>> Chance? Yo, you mad late, son. I been
gave you a chance to give me a chance.
You bait it. Nah, I'm good. B, it's
quiet. Curtains.
>> I know what it is to risk everything you
have for something that you want. I know
what that means.
>> All right. This is him in the recording
studio where Denzel has tracked him down
to
get his money basically. And we learn
that this guy, the kidnapper, has been
trying to get Denzel's attention for
years to like cut a record to just make
some music cuz Denzel's this important
music producer.
>> I used to be on a Brooklyn Bridge just
looking up at you at your terrace. You
know the Dumbo Olympia, [__] I told
you I know where you lay too, [__]
[__] ain't about nothing. Just to find
out you had the worst ears in the
[__] business. But you hear me now
though, right, [__] You hear me now
though, right? And this is him dressing
Denzel down. And I have to say, I have
never heard a person talk to Denzel
Washington like this before
>> in your life. In the movies?
>> Oh, never in a movie. It's just he's
great. Also,
>> and Denzel kind of likes it.
>> He kind of likes it. Nobody roughs him
up. And he likes being roughed up a
little bit. You're lonely on the inside.
You quiet on the inside. You hurt on the
inside. That's what I want to feel.
That's what I want to see. That's what I
want to know. I want to know what's
inside you. I think the thing that keeps
Denzel in the room is he knows this as a
kid. This is like this is a person with
a with a like a a gooey a gooey center
who made a bad mistake and
I think
>> and who wants a daddy to recog I was
just about to say who wants a daddy and
ASAP Rocky is playing petulant
but if Denzel came on the other side of
that of that glass and spanked him
>> well spanked him and that gave a hug. He
would be like, "Okay, I think I'm
straight now." Um,
>> but who else but ASAP Rocky could incite
Denzel Washington to speak in
>> Oh, to do the verse
>> in response to him.
>> I think that that one of the things I
love about this performance especially
um is that it it is allowing ASAP Rocky
to bring himself to bear on the part.
Right? You might not know anything about
this man, but you can understand there's
something
about him
is speaking his natural self when he's
speaking in verse.
>> Yes.
>> To Denzel Washington.
>> He's just so good. Um I am I am placing
I am moving some chips on the ASAP Rocky
part of the table.
>> Me, too. That's Yeah, we're just gonna
We're just going to push some more
chips. So, okay, movies, y'all got a job
to do. Hire this man.
>> I think we don't have to convince them,
though. I think it's going to happen.
>> Okay, we'll see.
>> I think he's put his riz out into the
universe. Okay.
>> Okay,
>> Wesley.
>> We're going to talk about another movie
star.
>> Oh,
>> a big movie star.
>> Okay.
>> In another bad movie.
>> It happens sometimes.
>> The winner of the strongest flex of
anti-stardom 2025.
Please tell us about her.
>> Uh, it's Julia Roberts and After the
Hunt. We don't need to tell anybody
about Julia Roberts,
>> you know,
>> but it is a new dimension of Julia
Roberts.
>> It is
>> that I've never seen. Tell us about what
she is doing in this movie. Well, she's
basically playing she's playing a
professor of philosophy at Yale
University who is embroiled in in a in a
sexual misconduct scandal between one of
her proteges and one of her colleagues.
>> What are you saying he did?
>> Isn't it obvious?
And the question is really whose side is
she going to take?
>> You know, given your history,
>> what does that mean? My history.
>> I I What do you mean? I don't know.
>> Why are you saying that? My history.
What does it mean? It's got to mean
something.
>> But this woman has her own problems.
She's holding on to some dark stuff from
her past. and all of the stress and
tension and guilt from her past and this
present has is manifesting itself in her
physical health.
>> So, she's keeling over,
>> you know, every other scene, throwing
up,
>> desperate for prescription medications
from a colleague.
It's so different from the kind of cozy,
vivaceious, curly Julia Roberts.
>> Well, what I love about this is
she's just shaken the edge of sketch
really hard here.
>> And I've never seen her this desperate.
I've never seen her this remote. I've
never seen her this scheming.
>> But you, it's all lies. I've never seen
her this determined
to not be liked or indifferent to
whether or not we like her. She's played
plenty of unpleasant people that I would
say she knew she could count on
>> her Julia Roberts
>> her her Riz
>> Yeah.
>> to to win us over.
>> Yeah. sort of similar to what you were
saying about Emma Stone that like I do
think there's like an interesting sub
theme in this year's great performers of
these women really good actresses but
who have these big
>> kind of bright persona pushing
themselves into this terrain that's kind
of deranged
>> physically difficult uncomfortable to
watch
>> unpleasant unpleasant unpleasant
unpleasant whatever that is and she has
really adapted the limitations of the
screenplay play to her ability to
extract
some kind of deeper meaning from
whatever it is a character is doing.
>> Thank you, Julia Roberts, for redeeming
that god awful movie.
>> Yeah, it doesn't work. But she really,
really does. And it's a turn she didn't
need to take, but she took it. And I
hope she gets to do more things like
this because I think she's improperly
appreciated. Mhm.
>> And I think roles like this on this like
second half of her career will really
help I think
deepen her greatness, her already great
greatness.
Yeah. I don't know.
>> Okay, Wesley.
>> Mhm.
>> We have arrived at a category that is
dear to my heart,
>> one that we kind of disagree on. So, I'm
excited to talk to you about this one.
Oh, I know what it is then because
there's really only one thing we I don't
even know that we go. What is it? What
is it? What is it? What is it? What is
it? What is it?
>> For the people at home.
>> Yeah.
>> Best Awe.
>> Mhm.
>> Tell us about this.
>> Uh, this is for the movie Hamnit, and
I'm giving it to Jesse Buckley, who
plays William Shakespeare's wife. And I
I I was not sure this movie was working
for me. I sort of felt like I was
watching
sometimes an acting class and I mean
like not a master class but a class in
which actors are learning the craft.
And this performance this this character
that she's playing is essentially like
I'm going to be very reductive and just
say like a wild child. Right?
We're in the 16th century.
This is a person who has lived in
nature. People kind of ascribe a
witchyness to the character.
>> Is it true
>> you know everything about a person by
touching them here?
>> Not everything.
>> And this man is a is an artist. He is
really about making his art. He's from a
fallen family but a but a gentry
oriented family. But they've they've
fallen on kind of weirdly hard times and
he is forced to be a bread winner. This
person is played by Paul Mscal. It is
William Shakespeare. They have a real
sexual connection.
>> He's got more inside of him than any man
I've ever met.
>> They become a family. They have three
kids and one of them dies.
>> Mama.
>> But boy,
>> he lives not.
>> And in the wake of the death,
she grieavves. and he grieavves, but she
thinks that his grief isn't
as deep as hers. It's not as expressed
as hers, and she is grieving. This
performance is so much about the
expression of of barereftness.
>> Well, I think it's also important to say
that the Paul MScow character, the
William Shakespeare character leaves, is
leaving
>> for long periods of time
>> to go to Stratford on Avon. No. To go to
London.
>> Oh. To Right. You're right. You're
right.
>> To write and to create his company and
to put on plays and to make his work.
And he throws himself into making his
work while she remains home in Stratford
upon Avon dealing with her grief.
>> And so it becomes this like, you know,
very relatable
gender labor question,
>> right? But
the whole thing culminates the reason
that that this woman's name is on this
card is because
>> and the reason that you created this
category about awe
>> is we find out that maybe these the
division of grief the the labor of it
he'd been taking it up in this different
way. He'd been expressing his grief
through the artistic process. And all of
a sudden, this movie's priorities become
very, very clear.
And it's not just that the audience
makes an investment in Jesse Buckley's
performance. I'm going to start crying.
Um,
>> let's set it set it up a little bit,
though.
>> It's Yeah,
>> she I mean, yada yada yada. He winds up
at this performance of the thing he's
been working on this whole time
and
I can't like so one of the things that
happens in the movies is you sometimes
you don't know you don't know you don't
know what's going to happen to you and
you know a lot of the time with me I'm
asking when I'm not connecting with
something why it's not connecting with
me and so I was sort of I I did not know
why we were watching in this movie. It's
based in this Mary Maggie Maggie O.
Farerrell novel. I knew all those
things. I just still didn't know why we
were watching this movie. Why did Khloe
Xiao choose to direct this thing? And
this woman gets to this play and she is
in the crowd. She has made her way to
the essentially the precenium just the
edge of the stage and she's below it and
she is watching her first ever work of
theater
as written by her husband who is
>> Oh, we should say by the way that the
play is Hamlet.
>> Are we going to say that it's Hamlet?
Okay, fine. The play that she is
watching is one of the greatest artistic
achievements in human civilization and
she's watching it for the first time.
But this is also the first time
>> I have no knowledge of the conventions.
>> She doesn't understand any of the rules.
So at the beginning of this performance,
she's like this is not she's saying out
loud. She is basically this woman. This
is a negro essentially in this audience.
She's like this is not how it goes. She
is talking back to the thing on stage.
She's like, I don't like this. This is
not true. This is not how it this is I
don't recognize any of these things. She
goes from this belligerent audience
member
to
I mean over I mean this is a long
sequence and it's cutting between this
actor on stage and and her and the
audience
and the look on her face at some point
where she just kind of um
understands she doesn't understand
anything actually she's just feeling ing
the thing that art does when it works.
And [__] this movie because the same
thing happened to me.
I was not understanding it at all.
>> And then all of a sudden watching this
woman's face go from like this is some
dumb this is stupid. Why am I even here?
What are you people even doing here? And
then all of a sudden she does this thing
where her face tilts to the side or like
maybe it's her mouth. She looks drunk.
She looks drunk with understanding.
>> And then
she looks completely transformed with
like her heart has like leapt out of her
body. And we are talking about a
religious experience at this point. And
she takes her hand and she like
>> I'm going to cry now.
>> It's so beautiful.
>> And the actor takes her hand and she
just like
she doesn't It's not the art that she
understands necessarily. It's like she
understands what her husband has been
going through this entire time. GOD DAMN
IT.
[__] THIS MOVIE.
But you know what? Like I am not sitting
here crying right now if this woman does
not sell me
what art is and what it can do.
>> Yeah. I mean, it's sort of the most
piffy economical.
>> It's so piffy. Yep.
demonstration of what art does, which is
take
these unutterable,
irresolvable,
oceanic, emotional
experiences and then gives them a form
and another life and that's all in that
performance.
>> H I should say we are talking about the
end of Hamnit. I really respect the
studio for not letting us show the end
of this movie. First of all, it's very
long.
>> But but it also means we should let the
people see it.
>> You got to experience this thing with
your own,
>> eyes, heart, soul. You I mean, oh man, I
>> boosting for Hamnet. I didn't think it
was going to happen, but here I am
really, but I'm boosting for the
performance.
This thing does not work if she doesn't
work. And she works.
>> All right.
From the sublime to the ridiculous.
>> Oh, sure.
>> But sublime in its way.
>> Yes. Okay.
>> Wonderful category.
>> Best grasp of scuzz.
>> Um,
>> tell us about this one.
>> It's Timothy Shalamé in Marty Supreme.
This is kind of going to need a little
bit of a windup. The the wind up for me
is this is a person who I have believed
in for a long time, but I you know take
him leave. I don't know. I don't I don't
love him.
>> He wasn't ever really doing it for me.
>> Oh, so you believed in him just because
of like sheer
>> I know there was something in there. I I
know there was something. No, none of
those things.
>> Okay.
>> I I think it you know it's seeing him in
Ladybird. Ladybird is the thing that I
was holding on to as you know his brief
scenes in Ladybird.
>> My name's Ladybird.
>> It's weird. You shake hands.
>> Yeah.
>> I'm like that kid has something. And I
have been waiting this whole time for
somebody to give him a part that is new
that he can create from scratch. doesn't
can't turn to like old TV to figure it
out and he does it.
>> Tell us about the character Timothy
Shalamé plays in this crazy
movie.
>> I mean, he is a shoe salesman by day and
a pingpong
player
kind of by night, but also has got his
hands in a bunch of other pots. Some of
them are scalding hot,
>> right? Yeah. I mean,
>> he's a con man. Basically, Timothy
Shalom is playing a con.
>> Do you make money at this little table
tennis thing?
>> Not yet.
>> Do you have a job?
>> No.
>> This is a guy. This is the kid in class
in your school who was cool.
>> How do you live?
>> Well, I live with the confidence if I
believe in myself, the money will
follow.
>> Who everybody kind of maybe wanted to be
around a little bit. And what do you
plan to do if this whole dream of yours
doesn't work out?
>> That doesn't even enter my
consciousness.
>> Maybe it should.
>> But who also is kind of crazy, so nobody
really wanted to be too around him, but
he also is charismatic and interesting.
This movie is set in the 50s, we should
say, in a Jewish New York of Yore. Um,
this kid is his name is Marty Mouser.
And like the the movie has a real
understanding of the period in which it
is set, right? And it also has a real
like almost um tangible
dirtiness and vulgarity
that
Timothy
>> also kind of a sorrow coursing through
it because it's very aware of being post
Holocaust pretty immediately. The
Holocaust is very apparent here, too.
And
every single thing I just said about
this movie is courarssing through
Timothy Shalom's performance. This is to
me, this is the Nicholson part. This is
the Nicholson performance. This is the
the Alpuccino performance. This is the
thing that says, "Okay, this this starry
person, this movie star-like person
is really an excellent actor, like a
really good actor who can take chances
and like hit every ball, every pitch um
that is coming over the plate like real
hard
>> or a little intricate pingpong."
>> Oh, I bow down. Sasha Weiss,
>> which he did learn how to play. Can we
Can we just watch a little bit of it cuz
I I hunger to watch this movie again,
even though it's so stressful.
>> Well, we we'll talk more about it. Okay,
this is I'm going to put my headphones
on.
>> Um Oh, I know this scene. This is a
great scene.
>> K,
>> speaking.
>> Hey, it's Marty Mouser. I'm in the royal
suite.
>> This is him calling up the great great
great Gwyneth Paltro um to ask her.
She's a movie. recipient of
>> I I did
>> a Wesker this year.
>> She is getting a prize. Uh but she is
this movie star who is basically retired
from acting and is basically living as
the spouse of this rich businessman and
they're in this hotel together. He has
conned his way into a room at the hotel.
He is now calling up this actress for a
basically for a date.
>> This much older
>> much older. very famous, very
wellrespected actor for a date.
>> I saw you in the lobby yesterday.
>> Okay.
>> Yeah, we made eye contact. I was being
interviewed.
>> I I don't recall.
>> Well,
>> he's on the bed, by the way, in his
underwear in a pair of boxer shorts in a
bathrobe.
>> I'm a huge admirer.
>> And socks.
>> Okay. Can I help you with something?
>> Maybe. I just ordered one of the room
service menu. There's no way I'll be
able to eat it all alone. Ah,
>> so you'd like me to come up to your
room?
>> Mhm. Her skepticism is so great. Also,
he's got bad skin and glasses and a and
a and a and a rat mustache.
>> Perhaps I should send my husband
instead.
>> Oh, sure. You can come up here and I'll
come down and meet you.
>> Okay, wonderful. Thank you.
>> Whoa, why keep talking?
>> Why is that?
>> Because I never talked to an actual
movie star.
>> Well, now you have. I hope the
experience was all you thought it would
be.
>> You know, I'm something of a performer,
too.
>> Are you?
>> He really is.
>> Yeah. You don't believe me?
I
>> what? What?
>> That's the audacity.
>> Yes, the nerve. And his eyes are dancing
>> and he's having such
>> He's enjoying time. Yeah, he's enjoying
this. Even when he shouldn't be enjoying
things in this movie, he's enjoying
them.
>> Turn to page 12.
>> Uh,
page 12. Okay. What am I looking at
here?
>> Down the middle in the center.
This is you.
>> Yeah, the chosen one.
>> Also, she's wearing these um what I
describe as um
uh Flannry O' Conor horn rim glasses.
She looks much older than than she is
because these glasses are are like
making her eyes seem larger. Well, these
are two sexy people who the movie is
kind of doing everything it can to make
them appear unsexy and yet they're like
unquenchable life force is just erupting
or his unquenchable life force
>> draws out. I love that you were
describing what is happening with him as
a life force because
I was sucked in to this performance
mostly because of its energy. Right.
This is
this is all energy and it is an actor
like playing the organ with it, right?
Just knowing when to pull out the valve
and hit hit these chords just pushing
and pulling and you know dancing along
the keyboard. I mean he is having such a
good time with the instrument of himself
here.
>> Yeah. And
>> but with the knowledge, the thing that's
so deep about it is that there is this
darkness underneath the undertoe of
>> your whole people haven't been murdered.
>> Survival.
>> It is a life force that is insisting
>> upon
>> life. And it's so moving weirdly like
it's so much fun,
>> but it is there's there's a depth to it
that I had never seen before from
Timothy
>> Shallow. He's never gotten. Well, the
thing that this movie and this
performance
like it insists
that more things like this be attempted.
Now, everybody's not going to be as good
a filmmaker as Josh Safy is, but
>> because he is a filmmaker. He's is a
filmmaker and he knows what to do with a
star, which is to push him as far and as
hard as he can be pushed, right? Cuz
there are things that Timothy Shalomé
has to do in this movie physically that
are really I mean, not just the
pingpong. There's a lot of This movie is
violent, I should say. Like there's a
lot of chaotic,
>> really
pleasant. Like I watch so much of it
like this.
>> Yeah. But whenever he was around, I'd be
like, "But I don't want to miss
anything."
>> But this is where we get to the category
of the scuzz at all.
>> And I think that there are actors who
just wouldn't want to
>> say those half the things that this
character is asked to do. The the thing
the the way you know you were watching a
class A actor slashstar
is that
I will follow this guy
anywhere
>> into
>> I mean I will watch bathtub in a cheap
motel with your arm crushed under it.
>> Yes. And you're still on his side. Not
the poor schmuck who who like gets his
arm crushed.
>> Totally.
I feel like we said that the women were
the most reckless this year and the most
brave, but this is this too is reckless.
>> Oh, yeah. But, you know, it's funny
because, you know, Emma Stone continuing
to ride this stairway to Jupiter is is
interesting because
she doesn't care about coming back to
Earth.
Well, she's also building it while she's
ascending it.
>> There's nothing on earth
>> actingwise for her
>> and she knows it. So, just let's just
keep going to crazy town.
>> Shalomé,
he needed he needed to find his stairway
and he's on one now and I may he never
come back to Earth.
>> Okay, speaking of earthliness.
>> Yes. Speaking of I feel like we're we're
we're we went from the sublime to the
ridiculous and now we're going to go
from the stratosphere down to really
grounded reality with this category. My
personal favorite best performance 2025
>> best performance using all available
tools.
>> Okay. Kathleen Shaun in a movie called
Familiar Touch. Uh
>> small beautiful jewel of a movie.
>> This is a film about a woman essentially
checking in to a retirement community.
That's it. Which is a really hard thing
to do. Do you get mad at actors for for
trying because their their their their
motives always feel not always but they
tend to feel impure which is like what
is what is a what is a very flashy
challenging part I could take that will
get me some attention. I'll play a
person with dementia. I play a person
who can't remember things. I'll play
that descent into dementia. But just to
describe it that way,
it doesn't even get even at a little bit
of what it is that Kathleen Sha is doing
in this film.
The beautiful thing to me about this
performance is,
and it's impossible really if you think
about it, what Kathleen Shaant has to do
is she's playing a life she's already
lived in a life she is currently
undergoing. I don't know how you do
that, but she does it. Like one of the
past things that you realize over the
course of the performance is this is
this maybe was a difficult person. This
maybe was a person that might have been
hard to get along with. She clearly
worked in a kitchen. There's a wonderful
movie. Boy, we should just can we watch
there's I like we should watch
the scene that I think is is is
>> I watched this movie and I thought I
could watch this movie every year for
the rest of my life and get more out of
it.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It is it is that deep and
quiet and delicate.
>> Everything that Timothy Shalamé's
performance is huge and like appetitive
and id this is like restraint and
clarity
>> clarity
>> clarity in a fog. I mean that's what's
so amazing about it.
>> But you don't ever Where's the acting?
She's using her body, her mind, her
eyes, her soul,
>> her skin, her skin, her very skin.
>> Listen, let's come let's just watch the
scene. This is a scene where she in one
of her first days uh in this facility
has like just she's checking in. She's
scrubbing in. She's tapping in to like
help make breakfast. And the people who
normally make the breakfast at this
facility are like, "Uh, what is
happening right now? Is this woman for
real?
>> I'm sorry I'm late. I slept in a little
bit.
>> She's putting on She's going to put on
her apron.
>> Oh, you're you're new on the line,
right?
>> She's another one with a beautiful
voice. That rich.
>> Yep.
>> Beautiful voice.
>> Let me show you how to do it. There's a
smoother way of cutting.
>> Hi, I'm Rudy the cook here.
Did Did you replace Max?
>> Yeah, I did a few days ago.
>> And they know, the staff knows to kind
of play along.
>> Welcome. Congratulations.
>> Thank you. It's good to be here.
>> Well, they're learning to play along.
They're recognizing that that's what
they should do here.
>> Where do you want me?
>> Um, let's uh let's go and have you take
over a fruit salad. But there is
something about the nerve of this
person.
>> But also, I think it's the Well, I
disagree. I I I I think it's the
commandingness and dignity. They they
they know to play along because
>> Oh, no. Yes. Yes. Yes. But I'm saying
this is a past this is a past
personality trait, right?
>> Exactly.
>> Let me show you how to do it. Right.
>> Totally. Totally.
>> That's what's being tapped into here.
You want me to call her?
>> This is not some daughtering old woman,
>> right? Exactly. It's her command. like
she they recognize that she has command,
you know, and they want to give her
>> and that's the thing that makes them
back off,
>> right?
>> And she just is like cutting a
grapefruit.
>> The thing about these performances to me
is they always want pity,
>> right? They always want your compassion.
She's a This is This turns out to be a
much more difficult individual person
than these movies allow for. And I love
the prickles and I love the softness of
this person. This is a really
interesting plant of a human being.
>> Yes.
>> And she has to sort of
>> reduce all of that down to these to
these gestures, right? The movie is
giving you very little. Um, it's the
confidence of the performance to operate
at all these levels that we're talking
about that fills in all these details
that makes us, you know, we don't have
the answers to any of the things we're
talking about, right? We are surmising
who this woman was,
>> right? It's a whole biography
like a an 800page biography of a past
self living inside a new self.
>> Yeah. I This is your favorite of all the
ones that we've of of the whole batch
and I got to say it was the one.
>> It's a great place to kind of bring our
ceremony to its conclusion.
>> Yeah. I mean it's
>> you can't get better than Kathleen Sha.
>> Okay.
>> We're sitting here. There's now like a
pile of names. Is there a bunch of
people we didn't even talk about? I
I don't know. I I I feel very
lucky and grateful to have had this
bounty of
>> it was a real feast this year
>> of of
>> a feast and and not only the abundance,
but the performances themselves were so
juicy as we've been discussing.
>> Yes.
>> So juicy. Such a juicy year. But what
does that mean to you, Wesley? I'm sorry
I interrupted you, but I'm desperate to
ask you what does it mean in a year
where we know there is a kind of, you
know, existential crisis in the movies.
>> H how do you make meaning of the list
this year and the the the just sheer
magnitude and amount of of great
performances?
>> Um I don't want to be doomy about this.
>> Yeah. Uh, I want to be practical
>> because there is an entire class of
movies that really doesn't exist
anymore. I talk about this all the time,
but you can see it when it's time to do
this work.
>> Most of the most of these performances I
saw between October and December
or like not even December. I saw most of
these performances in October and
November.
That's not right. That's like stacking
the deck toward, you know, I mean, for
our purposes, the Oscars, right?
>> I go to the movies in January, February,
March, April. I mean, I'm going all
year. I want to see interesting people
doing cool, interesting, new,
surprising, fun, moving stuff every
single month of the year. Yes. Not just
these two months, these three months.
That that dismayed me because if we were
doing this, you know, 15 years ago, even
like even 10 years ago, that would have
been less true.
>> Yes.
>> I would have there would have been way
more movies than Siza and and Kiki
Palmer's on in this pile uh than there
are now.
>> And yet, you know, these actors find a
way to do really interesting work. And
also some really famous stars, as we've
been discussing, are finding ways to do
new, riskier, stranger work sometimes in
kind of small movies.
>> Yeah.
>> So, how does that math add up? Well,
it's funny because I feel like for
instance,
uh, Marty Supreme
and and a whole class of movies that
that that live alongside it, but aren't
as I think magnificent, they are
hearkening back to something
that, you know, I I hate to be to put it
this way, but there is there was once
this this other golden age, right, the
grubby the grubby7s, right?
And that was when all this weird acting
was happening by these major actors, you
know, Al Puccino, Jack Nicholson, the
there I think that the movies are going
to have to undergo a change that like
breaks them all the way back down maybe.
>> And so this is the end and the beginning
of something. And I think that thinking
about these human beings
giving these performances, it it always
does fill me. It always makes me feel
like I'm being too hard on on the
industrial side of things. But I I can't
ignore the reality of that. But look, if
you get to watch Kathleen Shaant
act or Emma Stone actor, ASAP Rocky do
it do his thing.
>> It kind of makes life worth living.
>> Kind of makes life worth living.
>> It's true. Um, Sasha, thanks for making
this show worth doing.
>> Oh my god. Thank you for giving me this
this prod to see all these movies.
>> Um, well, you're welcome. Thanks for
doing this.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> Thank you. Thank you.